AWS Introduction
 Amazon Web Services 
•	As of today, largest public cloud/cloud computing platform on earth! 
•	It all started in 2006 
•	10 years and these guys are the market leaders.
•	AWS certification started in 2013
•	AWS certification adds value, and is hot in the job field. 
AWS Global Infrastructure 
•	Edge Location 
•	Availability Zone(AZ) 
•	Region 
AWS runs on this. 
Not a service offering but this is the actual infrastructure that AWS has! 

Region: 
Physical location in the world where AWS resource exists, they have multiple Availability Zones
 Availability Zone : 
Consist of one or more discrete data centers/AWS facility area, each with redundant power, networking and connectivity, housed in separate facilities. 
 The AWS Cloud operates 40 Availability Zones within 15 geographic Regions around the world, with nine more Availability Zones and four more Regions coming online throughout the next year. AWS keeps on adding them!!!! 
 Edge Location:
 CDN(Content Delivery Network) end points for Cloud Front. Place where data is cached.50+ edge locations and growing! 

AWS Networking & Content Delivery 
 VPC : Virtual Private Cloud is isolated cloud resources within AWS. Think of them as isolated Data centers.
 Direct Connect: Dedicated network connection to AWS. Way of connecting to AWS without the need of internet. Helps the data transport from and to the AWS infra and secure line. 
 Route 53: AWS DNS service.  DNS helps to convert the human readable address to numeric IP address.
Default port number for DNS is 53
 Cloud Front: Edge location is the place that caches the data. Example: Your data is stored somewhere in US location, if someone from India wants to use your data, the data can be cached in Mumbai so that no need to pull data from US location

AWS Compute
1.EC2: Elastic Compute Cloud. Virtual Servers in the Cloud. Popular service of AWS, virtualization concept
2.EC2 Container Service: Run and manage docker(container virtualization) containers
3.Elastic Beanstalk: Run and manage web apps. For developer, just upload the code and Amazon does the validation and provisions resources for that requirement.
4.Lambda: Run the code without thinking/worrying about the servers. One of the powerful and expanding area AWS. -> Minimal/High level
5.Lightsail: Launch and manage virtual private servers, new offering introduced in 2016 -> Minimal 

AWS Storage
1. S3: Simple Storage Service. Scalable storage in the cloud. Secure and highly scalable. Pay for what you use. Object based storage
2. Elastic File System: Fully managed file system for EC2 instances. Block level storage. Think of it as NAS in the cloud for many EC2(Shared). 
3.Glacier: File archival place, data access takes 2-4 Hours retrieval time. Used as for backup. Secure and low cost storage option for data archive and long time backup
Storage Gateway: Hybrid Storage integration. The AWS Storage Gateway is a service connecting an on-premises software appliance with cloud-based storage to provide seamless and secure integration between an organization's on-premises IT environment and AWS's storage infrastructure

AWS Database 
 RDS: Relational Database Services consisting of many (mini)DB’s( Oracle, posgresql, MySQL and so on) in the cloud. Managed Relational DB services
 DynamoDB: Managed Nosql DB in AWS. Non RDS. 
 ElastiCache: In-memory cache to help the DB. Cache the data in Cloud to improve DB performance and to reduce DB load. 
RedShift: Fast, simple, cost effective data warehousing solution from AWS.

AWS Analytics 
Athena: Query data in S3 using SQL. New offering. 
EMR: Elastic Map Reduce, for managed Hadoop framework. To handle “big data”. 
 Data Pipeline: Orchestration of data-driven workflow. 
 CloudSearch: Managed Search Service. Way of enabling your website/application with search capabilities(Auto complete, suggestion etc.).
ElasticSearch Service: Run and scale elasticsearch clusters(which is open source) in AWS. 
Kinesis: Work with real time streaming data. Stream and analyze the data. 
 Machine Learning: Build smart application quickly and easily. For developers. A promising technology.
 QuickSight: Fast and easy to use Business analytics tool.

AWS Migration Services 
 DMS: Database Migration Service. Easier and managed DB migration service. 
 Server Migration: Migrate on-premises servers to AWS. 
 Snowball: Large scale data transfer. Use snowball appliance to move data to and from AWS cloud.(like peta bytes of data)
 
