EC2 
 Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. It is designed to make web-scale computing easier for developers. 
 Can spin up VMs on cloud within mins per your requirement. 
 Revolutionary/Game changing paradigm that’s different and innovative from conventional ways(Machine procurement). 
 
 Why EC2 is so important?
  Instant provisioning 
  Auto scaling
  ELB 
  Low cost 
  Resizable(up and down)
  AZ 
  CloudWatch monitoring, etc 

EC2 Pricing options 
 On demand-Pay/Hour model. 
 Reserved- 1/3 yr contract for a fixed capacity of EC2 instances. Low cost per hour charges than on demand. 
 Spot- bid the price for instance-for requirements where start and end date is not a concern. 
 Dedicated-Physical EC2 servers available as pay/hour fashion.(use existing server bound licenses).

 Types of EC2 instance 
  Amazon EC2 instances are grouped into 5 families:
 General Purpose, 
 Compute Optimized, 
 Memory Optimized,
 GPU, 
 and Storage Optimized instances.
 
 General Purpose Instances have memory to CPU ratios suitable for most general purpose applications and come with fixed performance (M4 and M3 instances) or burstable performance (T2); 
 Compute Optimized instances (C4 and C3 instances) have proportionally more CPU resources than memory (RAM) and are well suited for scale out compute-intensive applications and High Performance Computing (HPC) workloads;
 Memory Optimized Instances (R3 and R4 instances) offer larger memory sizes for memory-intensive applications, including database and memory caching applications; 
 GPU Compute instances (P2) take advantage of the parallel processing capabilities of NVIDIA Tesla GPUs for high performance parallel computing; 
 GPU Graphics instances (G2) offer high- performance 3D graphics capabilities for applications using OpenGL and DirectX; 
 Storage Optimized Instances include I2 instances that provide very high, low latency, I/O capacity using SSD-based local instance storage for I/O-intensive applications and D2, Dense-storage instances, that provide high storage density and sequential I/O performance for data warehousing, Hadoop and other data-intensive applications. 
 When choosing instance types, you should consider the characteristics of your application with regards to resource utilization (i.e. CPU, Memory, Storage) and select the optimal instance family and instance size.
 EBS 
  Elastic Block storage lets you to create storage volumes and attach it with ec2 instance. 
  Block based 
  Can install software's or used for storage. 
  EBS volumes are placed on specific AZ and replicated automatically to withstand single point of failure. 
  Cannot attach 1 EBS volume to multiple EC2 instances-For this EFS can be used. 
EBS Volume types: 
 General Purpose SSD(GP2)-Upto 10,000 IOPS 
 Provisioned IOPS SSD(IO1)-More than 10,000 IOPS 
 Throughput optimized HDD-magnetic volume(ST1)-Frequent access of data 
 Cold HDD-Magnetic Volume(SC1)-IA data 
 Magnetic(Standard)-Lowest cost,IA bootable storage.
